README.md, before:

Google Analytics Measurement Protocol library for PHP
===========================

This is a fork of the original no longer maintained project [https://github.com/theiconic/php-ga-measurement-protocol.git](https://github.com/theiconic/php-ga-measurement-protocol.git)

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/version)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/ci.yaml?branch=master)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![PHP Version Require](http://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/require/php)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/php-ga-measurement-protocol/badge/?version=latest)](http://php-ga-measurement-protocol.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

## Description

Send data to Google Analytics from the server using PHP. This library fully implements GA measurement protocol so its possible to send any data that you would usually do from analytics.js on the client side. You can send data regarding the following parameters categories [(Full List)](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters):
* General
* User
* Session
* Traffic Sources
* System Info
* Hit
* Content Information
* App Tracking
* Event Tracking
* E-Commerce
* Enhanced E-Commerce
* Social Interactions
* Timing
* Exceptions
* Custom Dimensions / Metrics
* Content Experiments
* Content Grouping

## Installation

Use Composer to install this package.

    composer require 8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol

## Integrations

You can use this package on its own, or use a convenient framework integration:
* Laravel 5+ - https://github.com/irazasyed/laravel-gamp
* Yii 2 - https://github.com/baibaratsky/yii2-ga-measurement-protocol
* Symfony2 - https://github.com/fourlabsldn/GampBundle

Feel free to create an integration with your favourite framework, let us know so we list it here.

## Usage

The required parameters for all hits are Protocol Version, Tracking ID and at least one of these: Client ID or User ID. Some optional ones like IP Override are recommended if you don't want all hits to seem like coming from your servers.
```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

// Instantiate the Analytics object
// optionally pass TRUE in the constructor if you want to connect using HTTPS
$analytics = new Analytics(true);

// Build the GA hit using the Analytics class methods
// they should Autocomplete if you use a PHP IDE
$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293728-11')
    ->setClientId('12345678')
    ->setDocumentPath('/mypage')
    ->setIpOverride("202.126.106.175");

// When you finish bulding the payload send a hit (such as an pageview or event)
$analytics->sendPageview();
```
The hit should have arrived to the GA property UA-26293728-11. You can verify this in your Real Time dashboard. Take notice, if you need GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions you must get and set the ClientId to be same as the GA Cookie. Read ([here](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/cookies-user-id#getting_the_client_id_from_the_cookie)).

The library is 100% done, full documentation is a work in progress, but basically all parameters can be set the same way.

```php
// Look at the parameter names in Google official docs at
// https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters
$analytics->set<ParameterName>('my_value');
```

```php
// Get any parameter by its name
// Look at the parameter names in Google official docs at
// https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters
$analytics->get<ParameterName>();
```

All methods for setting parameters should **Autocomplete** if you use an IDE such as PHPStorm, which makes building the Analytics object very easy.

## Use Cases
### Order Tracking with simple E-commerce
```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

$analytics = new Analytics();

// Build the order data programmatically, including each order product in the payload
// Take notice, if you want GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions
// you must get and set the same ClientId from the GA Cookie
// First, general and required hit data
$analytics->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293624-12')
    ->setClientId('2133506694.1448249699');

// To report an order we need to make single hit of type 'transaction' and a hit of
// type 'item' for every item purchased. Just like analytics.js would do when
// tracking e-commerce from JavaScript
$analytics->setTransactionId(1667) // transaction id. required
    ->setRevenue(65.00)
    ->setShipping(5.00)
    ->setTax(10.83)
    // make the 'transaction' hit
    ->sendTransaction();

foreach ($cartProducts as $cartProduct) {
    $response = $analytics->setTransactionId(1667) // transaction id. required, same value as above
        ->setItemName($cartProduct->name) // required
        ->setItemCode($cartProduct->code) // SKU or id
        ->setItemCategory($cartProduct->category) // item variation: category, size, color etc.
        ->setItemPrice($cartProduct->price)
        ->setItemQuantity($cartProduct->qty)
        // make the 'item' hit
        ->sendItem();
}

```
### Order Tracking with Enhanced E-commerce

```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

$analytics = new Analytics();

// Build the order data programmatically, including each order product in the payload
// Take notice, if you want GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions
// you must get and set the same ClientId from the GA Cookie
// First, general and required hit data
$analytics->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293624-12')
    ->setClientId('2133506694.1448249699')
    ->setUserId('123');

// Then, include the transaction data
$analytics->setTransactionId('7778922')
    ->setAffiliation('THE ICONIC')
    ->setRevenue(250.0)
    ->setTax(25.0)
    ->setShipping(15.0)
    ->setCouponCode('MY_COUPON');

// Include a product
$productData1 = [
    'sku' => 'AAAA-6666',
    'name' => 'Test Product 2',
    'brand' => 'Test Brand 2',
    'category' => 'Test Category 3/Test Category 4',
    'variant' => 'yellow',
    'price' => 50.00,
    'quantity' => 1,
    'coupon_code' => 'TEST 2',
    'position' => 2
];

$analytics->addProduct($productData1);

// You can include as many products as you need this way
$productData2 = [
    'sku' => 'AAAA-5555',
    'name' => 'Test Product',
    'brand' => 'Test Brand',
    'category' => 'Test Category 1/Test Category 2',
    'variant' => 'blue',
    'price' => 85.00,
    'quantity' => 2,
    'coupon_code' => 'TEST',
    'position' => 4
];

$analytics->addProduct($productData2);

// Don't forget to set the product action, in this case to PURCHASE
$analytics->setProductActionToPurchase();

// Finally, you must send a hit, in this case we send an Event
$analytics->setEventCategory('Checkout')
    ->setEventAction('Purchase')
    ->sendEvent();
```

### Batch Hits

GA has an endpoint that you can hit to register multiple hits at once, with a limit of 20 hits. Hits to be send can be placed in a queue as you build up the Analytics object.

Here's an example that sends two hits, and then empties the queue.

```php
$analytics = new Analytics(false, false);

$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-xxxxxx-x')
    ->setClientId('xxxxxx.xxxxxx');    

foreach(range(0, 19) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->sendEnqueuedHits(); //push 20 pageviews in a single request and empties the queue
```

The queue is emptied when the hits are sent, but it can also be empty manually with `emptyQueue` method.

```php
$analytics = new Analytics(false, false);

$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-xxxxxx-x')
    ->setClientId('xxxxxx.xxxxxx');    

foreach(range(0, 5) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->emptyQueue(); // empty queue, allows to enqueue 20 hits again

foreach(range(1, 20) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->sendEnqueuedHits(); //push 20 pageviews in a single request and empties the queue
```

If more than 20 hits are attempted to be enqueue, the library will throw a `EnqueueUrlsOverflowException`.

### Validating Hits

From Google Developer Guide:

> The Google Analytics Measurement Protocol does not return HTTP error codes, even if a Measurement Protocol hit is malformed or missing required parameters. To ensure that your hits are correctly formatted and contain all required parameters, you can test them against the validation server before deploying them to production.

To send a validation hit, turn on debug mode like this

```php
// Make sure AsyncRequest is set to false (it defaults to false)
$response = $analytics
              ->setDebug(true)
              ->sendPageview();

$debugResponse = $response->getDebugResponse();

// The debug response is an associative array, you could use print_r to view its contents
print_r($debugResponse);
```

GA actually returns a JSON that is parsed into an associative array. Read ([here](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/validating-hits)) to understand how to interpret response.

### Disable library hits for Staging/Dev environments

In your app configuration, you can have a flag for enabling or disabling the library, this in order to not actually
send hits to GA, in this case the lib returns a AnalyticsResponseInterface object that returns empty values.

This is specially useful in dev or staging environments.

```php
// Instantiate the Analytics object by passing the second parameter in the constructor as TRUE
$analytics = new Analytics(true, true);
```

## Contributors

* Jorge A. Borges - Lead Developer ([http://jorgeborges.me](http://jorgeborges.me))
* Juan Falcón - [arcticfalcon](https://github.com/arcticfalcon)
* Syed Irfaq R. - [irazasyed](https://github.com/irazasyed)
* Andrei Baibaratsky - [baibaratsky](https://github.com/baibaratsky)
* Martín Palombo - [lombo](https://github.com/lombo)
* Amit Rana - [amit0rana](https://github.com/amit0rana)
* Stefan Zweifel - [stefanzweifel](https://github.com/stefanzweifel)
* Titouan Benoit - [nightbr](https://github.com/Nightbr)
* Hayashi Ryo - [ryo88c](https://github.com/ryo88c)
* Radek Hřebeček - [http://www.hrebecek.cz/](http://www.hrebecek.cz)
* edim24 - [ryo88c](https://github.com/edim24)
* venyii - [venyii](https://github.com/venyii)
* Peter Jaap Blaakmeer - [peterjaap](https://github.com/peterjaap)
* Alberto Bottarini - [alberto-bottarini](http://www.albertobottarini.com)

## License

THE ICONIC Google Analytics Measurement Protocol library for PHP is released under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update readme for google analytics 4

README.md, after:

Google Analytics Measurement Protocol library for PHP
===========================

[![Latest Stable Version](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/version)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
![GitHub Workflow Status (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/ci.yaml?branch=master)
[![Total Downloads](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/downloads)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![PHP Version Require](http://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/require/php)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![License](https://poser.pugx.org/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol/license.svg)](https://packagist.org/packages/8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol)
[![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/php-ga-measurement-protocol/badge/?version=latest)](http://php-ga-measurement-protocol.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)

This is a fork of the original no longer maintained project [https://github.com/theiconic/php-ga-measurement-protocol.git](https://github.com/theiconic/php-ga-measurement-protocol.git). There are no plans to add support for Google Analytics 4, this package is maintenance only for php 8.x support.

## Description

Send data to Google Analytics from the server using PHP. This library fully implements GA measurement protocol so its possible to send any data that you would usually do from analytics.js on the client side. You can send data regarding the following parameters categories [(Full List)](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters):
* General
* User
* Session
* Traffic Sources
* System Info
* Hit
* Content Information
* App Tracking
* Event Tracking
* E-Commerce
* Enhanced E-Commerce
* Social Interactions
* Timing
* Exceptions
* Custom Dimensions / Metrics
* Content Experiments
* Content Grouping

## Installation

Use Composer to install this package.

    composer require 8ctopus/php-ga-measurement-protocol

## Integrations

You can use this package on its own, or use a convenient framework integration:
* Laravel 5+ - https://github.com/irazasyed/laravel-gamp
* Yii 2 - https://github.com/baibaratsky/yii2-ga-measurement-protocol
* Symfony2 - https://github.com/fourlabsldn/GampBundle

Feel free to create an integration with your favourite framework, let us know so we list it here.

## Usage

The required parameters for all hits are Protocol Version, Tracking ID and at least one of these: Client ID or User ID. Some optional ones like IP Override are recommended if you don't want all hits to seem like coming from your servers.
```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

// Instantiate the Analytics object
// optionally pass TRUE in the constructor if you want to connect using HTTPS
$analytics = new Analytics(true);

// Build the GA hit using the Analytics class methods
// they should Autocomplete if you use a PHP IDE
$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293728-11')
    ->setClientId('12345678')
    ->setDocumentPath('/mypage')
    ->setIpOverride("202.126.106.175");

// When you finish bulding the payload send a hit (such as an pageview or event)
$analytics->sendPageview();
```
The hit should have arrived to the GA property UA-26293728-11. You can verify this in your Real Time dashboard. Take notice, if you need GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions you must get and set the ClientId to be same as the GA Cookie. Read ([here](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/cookies-user-id#getting_the_client_id_from_the_cookie)).

The library is 100% done, full documentation is a work in progress, but basically all parameters can be set the same way.

```php
// Look at the parameter names in Google official docs at
// https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters
$analytics->set<ParameterName>('my_value');
```

```php
// Get any parameter by its name
// Look at the parameter names in Google official docs at
// https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/parameters
$analytics->get<ParameterName>();
```

All methods for setting parameters should **Autocomplete** if you use an IDE such as PHPStorm, which makes building the Analytics object very easy.

## Use Cases
### Order Tracking with simple E-commerce
```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

$analytics = new Analytics();

// Build the order data programmatically, including each order product in the payload
// Take notice, if you want GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions
// you must get and set the same ClientId from the GA Cookie
// First, general and required hit data
$analytics->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293624-12')
    ->setClientId('2133506694.1448249699');

// To report an order we need to make single hit of type 'transaction' and a hit of
// type 'item' for every item purchased. Just like analytics.js would do when
// tracking e-commerce from JavaScript
$analytics->setTransactionId(1667) // transaction id. required
    ->setRevenue(65.00)
    ->setShipping(5.00)
    ->setTax(10.83)
    // make the 'transaction' hit
    ->sendTransaction();

foreach ($cartProducts as $cartProduct) {
    $response = $analytics->setTransactionId(1667) // transaction id. required, same value as above
        ->setItemName($cartProduct->name) // required
        ->setItemCode($cartProduct->code) // SKU or id
        ->setItemCategory($cartProduct->category) // item variation: category, size, color etc.
        ->setItemPrice($cartProduct->price)
        ->setItemQuantity($cartProduct->qty)
        // make the 'item' hit
        ->sendItem();
}

```
### Order Tracking with Enhanced E-commerce

```php
use TheIconic\Tracking\GoogleAnalytics\Analytics;

$analytics = new Analytics();

// Build the order data programmatically, including each order product in the payload
// Take notice, if you want GA reports to tie this event with previous user actions
// you must get and set the same ClientId from the GA Cookie
// First, general and required hit data
$analytics->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-26293624-12')
    ->setClientId('2133506694.1448249699')
    ->setUserId('123');

// Then, include the transaction data
$analytics->setTransactionId('7778922')
    ->setAffiliation('THE ICONIC')
    ->setRevenue(250.0)
    ->setTax(25.0)
    ->setShipping(15.0)
    ->setCouponCode('MY_COUPON');

// Include a product
$productData1 = [
    'sku' => 'AAAA-6666',
    'name' => 'Test Product 2',
    'brand' => 'Test Brand 2',
    'category' => 'Test Category 3/Test Category 4',
    'variant' => 'yellow',
    'price' => 50.00,
    'quantity' => 1,
    'coupon_code' => 'TEST 2',
    'position' => 2
];

$analytics->addProduct($productData1);

// You can include as many products as you need this way
$productData2 = [
    'sku' => 'AAAA-5555',
    'name' => 'Test Product',
    'brand' => 'Test Brand',
    'category' => 'Test Category 1/Test Category 2',
    'variant' => 'blue',
    'price' => 85.00,
    'quantity' => 2,
    'coupon_code' => 'TEST',
    'position' => 4
];

$analytics->addProduct($productData2);

// Don't forget to set the product action, in this case to PURCHASE
$analytics->setProductActionToPurchase();

// Finally, you must send a hit, in this case we send an Event
$analytics->setEventCategory('Checkout')
    ->setEventAction('Purchase')
    ->sendEvent();
```

### Batch Hits

GA has an endpoint that you can hit to register multiple hits at once, with a limit of 20 hits. Hits to be send can be placed in a queue as you build up the Analytics object.

Here's an example that sends two hits, and then empties the queue.

```php
$analytics = new Analytics(false, false);

$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-xxxxxx-x')
    ->setClientId('xxxxxx.xxxxxx');    

foreach(range(0, 19) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->sendEnqueuedHits(); //push 20 pageviews in a single request and empties the queue
```

The queue is emptied when the hits are sent, but it can also be empty manually with `emptyQueue` method.

```php
$analytics = new Analytics(false, false);

$analytics
    ->setProtocolVersion('1')
    ->setTrackingId('UA-xxxxxx-x')
    ->setClientId('xxxxxx.xxxxxx');    

foreach(range(0, 5) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->emptyQueue(); // empty queue, allows to enqueue 20 hits again

foreach(range(1, 20) as $i) {
    $analytics = $analytics
        ->setDocumentPath("/mypage$i")
        ->enqueuePageview(); //enqueue url without pushing
}

$analytics->sendEnqueuedHits(); //push 20 pageviews in a single request and empties the queue
```

If more than 20 hits are attempted to be enqueue, the library will throw a `EnqueueUrlsOverflowException`.

### Validating Hits

From Google Developer Guide:

> The Google Analytics Measurement Protocol does not return HTTP error codes, even if a Measurement Protocol hit is malformed or missing required parameters. To ensure that your hits are correctly formatted and contain all required parameters, you can test them against the validation server before deploying them to production.

To send a validation hit, turn on debug mode like this

```php
// Make sure AsyncRequest is set to false (it defaults to false)
$response = $analytics
              ->setDebug(true)
              ->sendPageview();

$debugResponse = $response->getDebugResponse();

// The debug response is an associative array, you could use print_r to view its contents
print_r($debugResponse);
```

GA actually returns a JSON that is parsed into an associative array. Read ([here](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/protocol/v1/validating-hits)) to understand how to interpret response.

### Disable library hits for Staging/Dev environments

In your app configuration, you can have a flag for enabling or disabling the library, this in order to not actually
send hits to GA, in this case the lib returns a AnalyticsResponseInterface object that returns empty values.

This is specially useful in dev or staging environments.

```php
// Instantiate the Analytics object by passing the second parameter in the constructor as TRUE
$analytics = new Analytics(true, true);
```

## Contributors

* Jorge A. Borges - Lead Developer ([http://jorgeborges.me](http://jorgeborges.me))
* Juan Falcón - [arcticfalcon](https://github.com/arcticfalcon)
* Syed Irfaq R. - [irazasyed](https://github.com/irazasyed)
* Andrei Baibaratsky - [baibaratsky](https://github.com/baibaratsky)
* Martín Palombo - [lombo](https://github.com/lombo)
* Amit Rana - [amit0rana](https://github.com/amit0rana)
* Stefan Zweifel - [stefanzweifel](https://github.com/stefanzweifel)
* Titouan Benoit - [nightbr](https://github.com/Nightbr)
* Hayashi Ryo - [ryo88c](https://github.com/ryo88c)
* Radek Hřebeček - [http://www.hrebecek.cz/](http://www.hrebecek.cz)
* edim24 - [ryo88c](https://github.com/edim24)
* venyii - [venyii](https://github.com/venyii)
* Peter Jaap Blaakmeer - [peterjaap](https://github.com/peterjaap)
* Alberto Bottarini - [alberto-bottarini](http://www.albertobottarini.com)

## License

THE ICONIC Google Analytics Measurement Protocol library for PHP is released under the MIT License.
